# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
Data trend study of  KickStarter data

## Overview of Project
This project will explore the performance of different campaigns in relation to its launch date and funding goals.     
### Purpose
The purpose of this study is to analyze the theater campaign outcomes in relation to the campaign launch date and funding goals.  
## Analysis and Challenges
      
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
To analyze the relationship of the theater campaign outcomes in relation to the launch date, a table and line chart were created in Excel. The campaigns on the dataset was filtered by category “theater” and grouped by months of the based on the year of the launch date.  Based on the campaign outcomes, the campaign counts were generated by month.  The three campaign outcomes, “successful, canceled and failed”, were considered in this analysis.
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
To analyze the relationship of the campaign outcomes and funding goals, another pivot table and a line chart were created in Excel. The subcategory “plays” was considered. The funding goals were compared to the campaign outcomes (success, failed, cancelled). The campaigns were grouped by goal amount range and campaign outcomes. 
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
The challenge that was encountered in the process was the launch date formatted in Unix timestamp. It needs to be converted to a readable date format.   The Unix timestamp was converted from second to minutes to hours to days. The result in days was then added to the epoch date 01/10/1970 using EXCEL date function. After the conversion the EXCEL Date format was applied to the Launch Date column.
## Results

[Outcome Based on Launch Date Graph](https://github.com/fmgribbon/kickerstarter-analysis/blob/main/Resources/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png)

- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?

  The theater campaign outcomes by launch date, showed that the month of May was the most successful campaign. Also, the summer months, June, July, August have more successful theater campaigns compared to other months except May. The percentage of failed theater campaigns in the months of Jun, July and August were close to each other.

[Outcome Based on Goals Graph](https://github.com/fmgribbon/kickerstarter-analysis/blob/main/Resources/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png)


- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?

   The analysis of the campaign outcomes and goal data showed that more than 50% of the campaign succeeded for goals with less than $15,000 and goals between $35,000 and $45,000. There were more than 50% failed campaigns for goals between $20,000 and $35,000. The campaigns with  goals less than $5,000 were highly succeessful. The amount of the campaign goal is not enough to predict the outcome of the campaign. 
- What are some limitations of this dataset?
  
  There are additional data that could be considered to analyze and predict the outcome of a campaign. Some of the data could be the duration of campaign, the campaign funding, campaign location and others.
  
- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?

   1.The relationship of the outcome and launch date for every country
   
   2.The relationship of the outcome and goals for every country

